docs/AI-PROMPT-Next-Session.md, before:

# AI Prompt - Next Development Session

**Created:** 2025-12-15  
**Use:** Copy everything below the line into a new Claude chat

---

## Context

I'm continuing work on the **AMSF001 Project Tracker**. The Phase 5 state assessment is nearly complete.

Please read these files to understand current state:
```
/Users/glennnickols/Projects/amsf001-project-tracker/docs/PROJECT-STATE-ASSESSMENT.md
/Users/glennnickols/Projects/amsf001-project-tracker/docs/AI-PROMPT-Project-Context-v2.md
```

Use the Filesystem MCP tools to access my project files directly.

---

## What Was Completed (2025-12-14/15)

| Task | Status | Details |
|------|--------|---------|
| Unit test fix | ✅ Done | Added `env: { NODE_ENV: 'development' }` to Vitest — now 515/515 passing |
| Branch cleanup | ✅ Done | Deleted `develop`, `feature/cloud-testing-infrastructure`, `test/branching-setup` |
| Workflow documented | ✅ Done | GitHub Flow (trunk-based) documented in AI-PROMPT-Project-Context-v2.md |
| Test seed guidance | ✅ Done | Added "When to Seed Test Data" section to docs |
| Legacy user cleanup | ✅ Done | Deleted 6 UAT/orphan test users from Supabase |

---

## Current State Summary

| Area | Status |
|------|--------|
| **Git** | Clean — only `main` branch + 1 Dependabot PR |
| **Unit Tests** | 515/515 passing (100%) |
| **E2E Tests** | 223/224 passing (99.6%) — 1 mobile CSS issue |
| **Supabase** | 7 active e2e.* test users, production data intact |
| **Docs** | 18 active files, 21 archived |

---

## Outstanding Items

### 1. Security Vulnerability (Moderate Priority)

GitHub is flagging a **moderate vulnerability** on the default branch:
- **What:** Vite 5.4.21 has a known vulnerability
- **Fix available:** Dependabot PR exists (`dependabot/npm_and_yarn/vite-7.2.6`)
- **Concern:** This is a **major version upgrade** (5 → 7), may have breaking changes
- **URL:** https://github.com/spac3man-G/amsf001-project-tracker/security/dependabot/1

**Decision needed:** 
- Option A: Investigate the vulnerability severity and decide if upgrade is worth the risk
- Option B: Try the Vite 7 upgrade on a feature branch, run tests
- Option C: Look for a patch version of Vite 5.x that fixes the vulnerability

### 2. Mobile E2E Test Failure (Low Priority)

One E2E test fails on Mobile Chrome:
- **Issue:** Sidebar overlaps user menu button
- **Impact:** Cosmetic, doesn't affect functionality
- **Fix:** CSS responsive design adjustment

### 3. Next Development Priorities (Decision 5.5)

What should be the focus for the next sprint? Options include:
- Fix the Vite security vulnerability
- Fix the mobile CSS issue
- Add E2E tests for untested pages (Expenses, Deliverables, KPIs)
- New feature development
- Performance optimization

---

## Recommended Next Steps

1. **Investigate the Vite vulnerability** — check severity, decide on upgrade path
2. **Complete Decision 5.5** — define top 3 priorities for next sprint
3. **Update PROJECT-STATE-ASSESSMENT.md** with final decisions
4. **Commit and push** all documentation updates

---

## Key Commands

```bash
# Navigate to project
cd /Users/glennnickols/Projects/amsf001-project-tracker

# Run tests
npm run test          # Unit tests (515 tests)
npm run e2e           # E2E tests (224 tests)

# Git status
git status
git branch -a

# Check for vulnerabilities
npm audit
```

---

## Key URLs

| Resource | URL |
|----------|-----|
| GitHub Repository | https://github.com/spac3man-G/amsf001-project-tracker |
| GitHub Security | https://github.com/spac3man-G/amsf001-project-tracker/security/dependabot/1 |
| Dependabot PR | https://github.com/spac3man-G/amsf001-project-tracker/pull/2 (closed, but branch exists) |
| Production Site | https://amsf001-project-tracker.vercel.app |
| Supabase Dashboard | https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/ljqpmrcqxzgcfojrkxce |

---

## Development Workflow Reminder

This project uses **GitHub Flow** (simple trunk-based):

1. Create feature branch from `main`
2. Develop locally with Claude AI
3. Push and create PR → tests run automatically, Vercel creates preview
4. Review and merge → auto-deploys to production
5. Delete feature branch after merge

Commit message:

docs: Complete Vite security investigation - no vulnerabilities found
- Confirmed Vite 5.4.21 is patched for all known CVEs (30208, 31125, 46565)
- npm audit reports 0 vulnerabilities
- Cleaned up stale Dependabot branch (PR #2 was closed without merge)
- Added Vite 7 upgrade as optional future consideration (5.x is EOL)
- Updated PROJECT-STATE-ASSESSMENT.md with decisions 5.5 and 5.6
- Updated AI-PROMPT-Next-Session.md with current status

docs/AI-PROMPT-Next-Session.md, after:

# AI Prompt - Next Development Session

**Created:** 2025-12-15  
**Last Updated:** 2025-12-15  
**Use:** Copy everything below the line into a new Claude chat

---

## Context

I'm continuing work on the **AMSF001 Project Tracker**. The Phase 5 state assessment is complete.

Please read these files to understand current state:
```
/Users/glennnickols/Projects/amsf001-project-tracker/docs/PROJECT-STATE-ASSESSMENT.md
/Users/glennnickols/Projects/amsf001-project-tracker/docs/AI-PROMPT-Project-Context-v2.md
```

Use the Filesystem MCP tools to access my project files directly.

---

## What Was Completed (2025-12-14/15)

| Task | Status | Details |
|------|--------|---------|
| Unit test fix | ✅ Done | Added `env: { NODE_ENV: 'development' }` to Vitest — now 515/515 passing |
| Branch cleanup | ✅ Done | Deleted `develop`, `feature/cloud-testing-infrastructure`, `test/branching-setup` |
| Workflow documented | ✅ Done | GitHub Flow (trunk-based) documented in AI-PROMPT-Project-Context-v2.md |
| Test seed guidance | ✅ Done | Added "When to Seed Test Data" section to docs |
| Legacy user cleanup | ✅ Done | Deleted 6 UAT/orphan test users from Supabase |
| Vite security investigation | ✅ Done | Confirmed Vite 5.4.21 is patched for all known CVEs; stale Dependabot branch cleaned up |

---

## Current State Summary

| Area | Status |
|------|--------|
| **Git** | Clean — only `main` branch (no other branches) |
| **Unit Tests** | 515/515 passing (100%) |
| **E2E Tests** | 223/224 passing (99.6%) — 1 mobile CSS issue |
| **Supabase** | 7 active e2e.* test users, production data intact |
| **Docs** | 18 active files, 21 archived |
| **Security** | No known vulnerabilities (`npm audit` clean) |

---

## Outstanding Items

### 1. Mobile E2E Test Failure (Low Priority)

One E2E test fails on Mobile Chrome:
- **Issue:** Sidebar overlaps user menu button
- **Impact:** Cosmetic, doesn't affect functionality
- **Fix:** CSS responsive design adjustment

### 2. Future Consideration: Vite 7 Upgrade (Optional)

**Background:** On 2025-12-15, we investigated a GitHub Dependabot security alert for Vite.

**Findings:**
- Vite 5.4.21 (current) is **fully patched** for all known CVEs (CVE-2025-30208, CVE-2025-31125, CVE-2025-46565)
- `npm audit` reports **0 vulnerabilities**
- The vulnerabilities only affected dev servers exposed to the network (`--host` flag), not production builds
- Vite 5.x is now EOL (End of Life) — Vite 7 is the current major version

**Decision:** No immediate action required. The current version is secure.

**Future option:** Upgrade to Vite 7 when convenient to stay on a maintained release. This is a major version upgrade (5 → 7) that may have breaking changes. Test thoroughly on a feature branch before merging.

### 3. Next Development Priorities (Decision 5.5)

What should be the focus for the next sprint? Options include:
- Fix the mobile CSS issue
- Add E2E tests for untested pages (Expenses, Deliverables, KPIs)
- New feature development
- Performance optimization
- Vite 7 upgrade (optional, not urgent)

---

## Recommended Next Steps

1. **Complete Decision 5.5** — define top 3 priorities for next sprint
2. **Update PROJECT-STATE-ASSESSMENT.md** with final decisions
3. **Commit and push** all documentation updates

---

## Key Commands

```bash
# Navigate to project
cd /Users/glennnickols/Projects/amsf001-project-tracker

# Run tests
npm run test          # Unit tests (515 tests)
npm run e2e           # E2E tests (224 tests)

# Git status
git status
git branch -a

# Check for vulnerabilities
npm audit
```

---

## Key URLs

| Resource | URL |
|----------|-----|
| GitHub Repository | https://github.com/spac3man-G/amsf001-project-tracker |
| Production Site | https://amsf001-project-tracker.vercel.app |
| Supabase Dashboard | https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/ljqpmrcqxzgcfojrkxce |
| GitHub Actions | https://github.com/spac3man-G/amsf001-project-tracker/actions |

---

## Development Workflow Reminder

This project uses **GitHub Flow** (simple trunk-based):

1. Create feature branch from `main`
2. Develop locally with Claude AI
3. Push and create PR → tests run automatically, Vercel creates preview
4. Review and merge → auto-deploys to production
5. Delete feature branch after merge
