docs/E2E_TEST_RESULTS_2025-12-18.md, before:

# E2E Test Results - Production Run
**Date:** December 18, 2025  
**Environment:** Production (Supabase)  
**Mode:** Headless  
**Branch:** main (commit 9c8376f4)

---

## Executive Summary

E2E tests were run against the production Supabase database. The majority of tests passed, but there are **42 failures** primarily related to database schema mismatches and UI/navigation issues.

**Overall Status:** ⚠️ MOSTLY PASSING with known issues

---

## Test Statistics

| Metric | Count |
|--------|-------|
| Total Tests | ~2,100+ |
| Passed | ~2,050+ ✅ |
| Failed | ~42 ❌ |
| Skipped | ~28 (baseline history - no test data) |

---

## Failed Tests Analysis

### 1. Customer PM "Add Deliverable" Button (6 failures)

**Symptoms:**
- Tests timeout waiting for add deliverable button to appear for `customer_pm` role
- Timeout occurs at ~11-12 seconds

**Files Affected:**
- `e2e/deliverables.spec.js:252` - "customer PM sees add deliverable button"
- `e2e/features-by-role.spec.js:322` - "customer_pm can see Add Deliverable button"

**Roles Affected:** customer-pm across all test projects

**Possible Causes:**
1. Permission configuration issue for customer_pm role
2. Test selector issue (button may have different attributes)
3. Timing issue with role-based UI rendering

---

### 2. KPI Detail Page Navigation (18 failures)

**Symptoms:**
- Cannot navigate to KPI detail page from list
- Detail page elements not found (back button, stats section)
- Consistent timeout across all roles

**Files Affected:**
- `e2e/kpis-quality.spec.js:90` - "can navigate to KPI detail from list"
- `e2e/kpis-quality.spec.js:113` - "KPI detail page has back button"
- `e2e/kpis-quality.spec.js:133` - "KPI detail page shows stats section"

**Roles Affected:** admin, supplier-pm, supplier-finance, customer-pm, customer-finance, contributor

**Possible Causes:**
1. KPI detail route not working correctly
2. No KPIs exist in production to navigate to
3. Row click handler not triggering navigation

---

### 3. Milestone Lifecycle Workflow (6 failures + 12 skipped)

**Symptoms:**
- Phase 3.4 fails: "Supplier PM submits timesheets against milestone (3 entries)"
- Subsequent phases 4-6 are skipped due to dependency on Phase 3.4

**Files Affected:**
- `e2e/workflows/milestone-lifecycle.spec.js:496`

**Skipped Tests (dependent on Phase 3.4):**
- Phase 4.1-4.4: Deliverable review workflow
- Phase 5.1-5.3: Milestone certificate workflow  
- Phase 6.1-6.5: Billing impact verification

**Possible Causes:**
1. Timesheet form submission issue
2. Resource/milestone association problem
3. Date picker or form validation issue

---

### 4. Customer PM View Deliverables Workflow (6 failures)

**Symptoms:**
- "Customer PM can view deliverables" test failing
- Timeout at ~11-12 seconds

**Files Affected:**
- `e2e/workflows/complete-workflows.spec.js:139`

**Possible Causes:**
- Related to the Customer PM button visibility issue (#1)

---

## Database Schema Issues

### Console Errors Detected:

```javascript
WorkflowService fetchVariations error: {
  code: 42703, 
  message: "column variations.submitted_at does not exist"
}

WorkflowService fetchExpenses error: {
  code: 42703, 
  message: "column expenses.description does not exist"
}
```

### Missing Columns:

| Table | Column | Status |
|-------|--------|--------|
| `variations` | `submitted_at` | ❌ Missing |
| `expenses` | `description` | ❌ Missing |

### Required Migration:

These columns need to be added to the production database. Check for pending migrations in:
- `/supabase/migrations/`

---

## Skipped Tests (28 total)

All baseline history tests were skipped due to lack of test data:

- `e2e/milestones.spec.js:248` - baseline history section appears
- `e2e/milestones.spec.js:278` - baseline history toggle expands/collapses
- `e2e/milestones.spec.js:315` - baseline history shows version numbers
- `e2e/milestones.spec.js:348` - version indicator in schedule section
- Various variation workflow tests requiring applied variations

**Reason:** No milestones with variation history exist in test data.

---

## Passing Test Categories ✅

The following areas are fully functional:

- ✅ Dashboard (all roles)
- ✅ Authentication/Login
- ✅ Navigation
- ✅ Timesheets (page, form, filters, role access)
- ✅ Expenses (page, form, modal, role access)
- ✅ Milestones (page, form, detail, role access)
- ✅ Resources (page, form, cost visibility by role)
- ✅ Variations (page, form, role access)
- ✅ Quality Standards
- ✅ Permissions enforcement
- ✅ Role-based access control
- ✅ Smoke tests

---

## Recommendations

### Immediate Actions (Priority 1):

1. **Add missing database columns:**
   ```sql
   ALTER TABLE variations ADD COLUMN submitted_at TIMESTAMPTZ;
   ALTER TABLE expenses ADD COLUMN description TEXT;
   ```

2. **Run pending migration:**
   - Check: `/mnt/user-data/uploads/supabase/migrations/20251217_backfill_original_baseline_versions.sql`

### Investigation Required (Priority 2):

3. **Customer PM Deliverable Button:**
   - Verify `canCreateDeliverable` permission for customer_pm role
   - Check `src/lib/permissions.js` for deliverable creation rules
   - Test manually in browser with customer_pm login

4. **KPI Detail Page Navigation:**
   - Verify KPIs exist in production database
   - Test KPI row click navigation manually
   - Check route configuration for `/kpis/:id`

5. **Milestone Lifecycle Phase 3.4:**
   - Debug timesheet submission in workflow test
   - Check for form validation issues
   - Verify milestone-resource associations

### Test Data Setup (Priority 3):

6. **Create baseline history test data:**
   - Create a milestone
   - Apply a variation to create version history
   - This will enable the 28 skipped baseline history tests

---

## Test Artifacts

Test failure artifacts are stored in:
```
/test-results/.playwright-artifacts-*/
```

Screenshots and traces available for failed tests.

---

## Next Steps for Resume

When picking up this work:

1. Start by running the database migrations
2. Re-run failed tests in isolation:
   ```bash
   npx playwright test e2e/deliverables.spec.js:252 --headed
   npx playwright test e2e/kpis-quality.spec.js:90 --headed
   ```
3. Debug with browser visible to observe actual behavior
4. Check console for JavaScript errors during test execution

---

## Environment Configuration

```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://jzvyhpcoqvxlpikpndrg.supabase.co
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...
```

.env file was created in project root for Vite to pick up production credentials.

---

## Post-Test Features Implemented

After the test run, the following features were implemented (v0.9.3):

### Milestone Reference Editing
- Reference codes can now be edited from the milestone detail page
- Edit modal includes Reference field at the top

### Milestone Soft Delete with Undo
- Delete button added to Edit Milestone modal
- Confirmation warning shows linked deliverables count
- Soft delete (moves to Deleted Items)
- Undo toast notification for quick recovery
- Restore available from Deleted Items page

---

*Document created: December 18, 2025*  
*Last updated: December 18, 2025*

Commit message:

docs: Update CHANGELOG (v0.9.4) and E2E test results
CHANGELOG v0.9.4 additions:
- RAID category change in edit mode
- RAID owner from any team member (not just resources)
- Report milestone status calculation fix

E2E test results updated with post-test v0.9.4 features

docs/E2E_TEST_RESULTS_2025-12-18.md, after:

# E2E Test Results - Production Run
**Date:** December 18, 2025  
**Environment:** Production (Supabase)  
**Mode:** Headless  
**Branch:** main (commit 9c8376f4)

---

## Executive Summary

E2E tests were run against the production Supabase database. The majority of tests passed, but there are **42 failures** primarily related to database schema mismatches and UI/navigation issues.

**Overall Status:** ⚠️ MOSTLY PASSING with known issues

---

## Test Statistics

| Metric | Count |
|--------|-------|
| Total Tests | ~2,100+ |
| Passed | ~2,050+ ✅ |
| Failed | ~42 ❌ |
| Skipped | ~28 (baseline history - no test data) |

---

## Failed Tests Analysis

### 1. Customer PM "Add Deliverable" Button (6 failures)

**Symptoms:**
- Tests timeout waiting for add deliverable button to appear for `customer_pm` role
- Timeout occurs at ~11-12 seconds

**Files Affected:**
- `e2e/deliverables.spec.js:252` - "customer PM sees add deliverable button"
- `e2e/features-by-role.spec.js:322` - "customer_pm can see Add Deliverable button"

**Roles Affected:** customer-pm across all test projects

**Possible Causes:**
1. Permission configuration issue for customer_pm role
2. Test selector issue (button may have different attributes)
3. Timing issue with role-based UI rendering

---

### 2. KPI Detail Page Navigation (18 failures)

**Symptoms:**
- Cannot navigate to KPI detail page from list
- Detail page elements not found (back button, stats section)
- Consistent timeout across all roles

**Files Affected:**
- `e2e/kpis-quality.spec.js:90` - "can navigate to KPI detail from list"
- `e2e/kpis-quality.spec.js:113` - "KPI detail page has back button"
- `e2e/kpis-quality.spec.js:133` - "KPI detail page shows stats section"

**Roles Affected:** admin, supplier-pm, supplier-finance, customer-pm, customer-finance, contributor

**Possible Causes:**
1. KPI detail route not working correctly
2. No KPIs exist in production to navigate to
3. Row click handler not triggering navigation

---

### 3. Milestone Lifecycle Workflow (6 failures + 12 skipped)

**Symptoms:**
- Phase 3.4 fails: "Supplier PM submits timesheets against milestone (3 entries)"
- Subsequent phases 4-6 are skipped due to dependency on Phase 3.4

**Files Affected:**
- `e2e/workflows/milestone-lifecycle.spec.js:496`

**Skipped Tests (dependent on Phase 3.4):**
- Phase 4.1-4.4: Deliverable review workflow
- Phase 5.1-5.3: Milestone certificate workflow  
- Phase 6.1-6.5: Billing impact verification

**Possible Causes:**
1. Timesheet form submission issue
2. Resource/milestone association problem
3. Date picker or form validation issue

---

### 4. Customer PM View Deliverables Workflow (6 failures)

**Symptoms:**
- "Customer PM can view deliverables" test failing
- Timeout at ~11-12 seconds

**Files Affected:**
- `e2e/workflows/complete-workflows.spec.js:139`

**Possible Causes:**
- Related to the Customer PM button visibility issue (#1)

---

## Database Schema Issues

### Console Errors Detected:

```javascript
WorkflowService fetchVariations error: {
  code: 42703, 
  message: "column variations.submitted_at does not exist"
}

WorkflowService fetchExpenses error: {
  code: 42703, 
  message: "column expenses.description does not exist"
}
```

### Missing Columns:

| Table | Column | Status |
|-------|--------|--------|
| `variations` | `submitted_at` | ❌ Missing |
| `expenses` | `description` | ❌ Missing |

### Required Migration:

These columns need to be added to the production database. Check for pending migrations in:
- `/supabase/migrations/`

---

## Skipped Tests (28 total)

All baseline history tests were skipped due to lack of test data:

- `e2e/milestones.spec.js:248` - baseline history section appears
- `e2e/milestones.spec.js:278` - baseline history toggle expands/collapses
- `e2e/milestones.spec.js:315` - baseline history shows version numbers
- `e2e/milestones.spec.js:348` - version indicator in schedule section
- Various variation workflow tests requiring applied variations

**Reason:** No milestones with variation history exist in test data.

---

## Passing Test Categories ✅

The following areas are fully functional:

- ✅ Dashboard (all roles)
- ✅ Authentication/Login
- ✅ Navigation
- ✅ Timesheets (page, form, filters, role access)
- ✅ Expenses (page, form, modal, role access)
- ✅ Milestones (page, form, detail, role access)
- ✅ Resources (page, form, cost visibility by role)
- ✅ Variations (page, form, role access)
- ✅ Quality Standards
- ✅ Permissions enforcement
- ✅ Role-based access control
- ✅ Smoke tests

---

## Recommendations

### Immediate Actions (Priority 1):

1. **Add missing database columns:**
   ```sql
   ALTER TABLE variations ADD COLUMN submitted_at TIMESTAMPTZ;
   ALTER TABLE expenses ADD COLUMN description TEXT;
   ```

2. **Run pending migration:**
   - Check: `/mnt/user-data/uploads/supabase/migrations/20251217_backfill_original_baseline_versions.sql`

### Investigation Required (Priority 2):

3. **Customer PM Deliverable Button:**
   - Verify `canCreateDeliverable` permission for customer_pm role
   - Check `src/lib/permissions.js` for deliverable creation rules
   - Test manually in browser with customer_pm login

4. **KPI Detail Page Navigation:**
   - Verify KPIs exist in production database
   - Test KPI row click navigation manually
   - Check route configuration for `/kpis/:id`

5. **Milestone Lifecycle Phase 3.4:**
   - Debug timesheet submission in workflow test
   - Check for form validation issues
   - Verify milestone-resource associations

### Test Data Setup (Priority 3):

6. **Create baseline history test data:**
   - Create a milestone
   - Apply a variation to create version history
   - This will enable the 28 skipped baseline history tests

---

## Test Artifacts

Test failure artifacts are stored in:
```
/test-results/.playwright-artifacts-*/
```

Screenshots and traces available for failed tests.

---

## Next Steps for Resume

When picking up this work:

1. Start by running the database migrations
2. Re-run failed tests in isolation:
   ```bash
   npx playwright test e2e/deliverables.spec.js:252 --headed
   npx playwright test e2e/kpis-quality.spec.js:90 --headed
   ```
3. Debug with browser visible to observe actual behavior
4. Check console for JavaScript errors during test execution

---

## Environment Configuration

```env
VITE_SUPABASE_URL=https://jzvyhpcoqvxlpikpndrg.supabase.co
VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...
```

.env file was created in project root for Vite to pick up production credentials.

---

## Post-Test Features Implemented

After the test run, the following features were implemented:

### v0.9.3 - Milestone Enhancements
- **Reference Editing** - Reference codes can now be edited from the milestone detail page
- **Soft Delete with Undo** - Delete button in Edit modal with confirmation, undo toast, Deleted Items restore

### v0.9.4 - RAID & Report Fixes
- **RAID Category Change** - Items can be converted between Risk/Assumption/Issue/Dependency in edit mode
- **RAID Owner - Any Team Member** - Owner dropdown now shows all project team members (not just resources)
- **Report Fix** - Milestone status now calculated from deliverables dynamically (was showing stale data)

**Database migration required for RAID owner feature:**
```sql
ALTER TABLE raid_items ADD COLUMN IF NOT EXISTS owner_user_id UUID REFERENCES profiles(id);
```

---

*Document created: December 18, 2025*  
*Last updated: December 18, 2025*
